# roqos rc-150 router setup guide

this guide will take you through setting up the rc-150 from a brand new one in box.

## required tools

* computer running linux (guide assumes its ubuntu)

* download of latest OpenWRT x86/64 `generic-ext4-combined-efi.img.gz`

    EX: <https://downloads.openwrt.org/releases/22.03.2/targets/x86/64/>

* USB to m.2 SATA adapter

* PH2 Screwdriver

* sfp to rj45 1.25g adapter

* ethernet cable

* roqos rc-150 firewall router

## procedure

#### disasembly of roqos for extraction of ssd

make sure the roqos is not connected to power

1. remove the 8 screws holding the cover on.
    * 2 screws on the fan side
    * 2 screws on the vent side
    * 2 screws just under the antenna ports on the rear
    * 2 screws on the bottom

1. pull the cover towards the back of the device. (the antenna jacks are on the inner frame and there is a hole in the outer case that it pokes through)

1. unscrew the 64gb m.2 ssd (the only one without antenna cables) from the router and remove it

1. install the m.2 ssd into your usb to m.2 adapter

1. plug it into your linux computer

#### extracting the downloaded disk image archive

1. open nautilus the gnome file manager

1. find the file you downloaded

1. right click on the file

1. click extract here.

#### flash openwrt image to disk

1. open gnome-disks

1. on the left bar select the 64gb disk from the roqos.

1. click on the 3 vertical dots on the top right and choose the option `restore disk image...`

1. find `generic-ext4-combined-efi.img` and select it.

1. click `start restoring`

1. if it warns you that the disk image will not fill the device say ok i want to do it anyway.

#### install gparted

1. open a terminal

1. run `sudo apt install -y gparted`

1. close the terminal

#### add second partition for overlayfs

1. open gparted

    it will ask for your password for sudo so it can touch the drives.

1. in the top right gparted selects your boot drive by default. click on the disk icon with /dev/... and choose the 64gb one from the roqos.

1. click on the free space and chose add partition.

    * free space preceding: `100`

    * size: `60000`

    * align to: `none`

    * type: `ext4`

    * label: `rootfs_data`

1. confirm

1. click the green checkmark to apply changes.

1. close gparted

#### install the ssd back in the router

1. go back to gnome-disks and click the power button on the top bar to eject the usb m.2 adapter (the light on the adapter should turn off)

1. unplug the adapter from your computer and remove the ssd.

1. reinstall the ssd in the roqos router.

#### openwrt network interface configuration

openwrt defaults to eth0 as lan and eth1 as wan.

on this router eth0 lan is the top sfp port and eth1 wan is the bottom sfp port.

1. install the sfp to rj45 adapter in the top sfp port

1. plug your ethernet cable into your computer and into the sfp adapter

1. plug the rc150 in to power

1. open your wired network settings and wait for your computer to have an ip address

1. open a web browser to 192.168.1.1

1. enter root for username and click the login button. (there is no password.)

1. under the `network` heading click the `interfaces` option

1. switch to the `devices` tab

1. click the `configure...` button on the `br-lan` device

    * under `bridge ports` chose `eth2, eth4, eth5, eth6, eth7`

    * click `save` and click `save and apply`

1. move your ethernet cable to the right most rj45 port and refresh the page to make sure you are still connected

1. click `add device configuration...`

    * device type: `bridge device`

    * device name: `br-wan`

    * bridge ports: `eth0, eth3`

    * click `save`. (DO NOT APPLY YET)

1. switch to the interfaces tab

1. click `edit` next to to `wan`

    * device: `br-wan` (was eth1)

    * click `save` (DO NOT APPLY YET)

1. click `edit` next to `wan6`

    * device: `br-wan` (was eth1)

    * click `save`. (DO NOT APPLY YET)

1. switch to devices tab

1. `configure` on `br-lan`

    * bridge ports: `eth1, eth2, eth4, eth5, eth6, eth7`

    * click `save`.

1. click `save and apply`

now the top ethernet and top sfp are wan and all the bottom ports are lan

1. plug the wan into an upstream internet connection.

#### configure overlayfs

1. open `terminal`

1. ssh into the router `ssh root@192.168.1.1` (it wont ask you for a password)

1. update package definitions `opkg update`

1. install required software `opkg install block-mount kmod-fs-ext4 e2fsprogs parted`

1. reload the web interface

1. under the `system` heading chose the `mount points` option

1. scroll down to mount points. and click edit next to `/dev/sda3`

    * enabled: `check`

    * mount point: `use as external overlay (/overlay)`

    * click `save`

1. scroll down and click `save and apply`

1. reboot the router

#### configure network

1. in the `network` heading chose the interfaces `option`

1. click the `edit` button next to the `lan` interface

1. change the `ipv4 address` to `192.168.254.254`

1. click `save`

1. click `save and apply` and chose `apply and keep settings`

1. close the browser tab to `192.168.1.1`

1. open a new browser tab to `192.168.254.254`

#### configure wireless

1. open `terminal`

1. ssh into router `ssh root@192.168.254.254`

1. update package definitions `opkg update`

1. install packages required for wireless `opkg install ath10k-board-qca988x ath10k-firmware-qca988x kmod-ath kmod-ath10k wpad`

1. reboot the device.

1. under the `network` heading chose `wireless`

1. click the `remove` button next to the OpenWRT wireless configuration

1. click the `add` button next to the radio0 device

1. under the device configuration `general setup` tab

    * mode: `AC`

    * channel: `108`

    * width: `80mhz`

1. under the device configuration `advanced settings` tab

    * Country Code: `US`

1. under the interface configuration `general setup` tab

    * mode: `Access Point`

    * ESSID: `CabrilloRobotics`

    * network: `lan`

1. under the interface configuration `wireless security` tab

    * encryption: `WPA2-PSK`

    * cipher: `auto`

    * Key: `Cabri11o`

1. click save

1. click `enable` next to the wireless mode added

1. click save and apply
